{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14680\viewh20440\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx864\tx1152\tx1296\tx1440\tx2592\tx2880\tx3168\tx3600\tx4032\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0  B A R D S  T A L E  H E L P  F I L E \
* ****************************************\
\pard\tx864\tx1152\tx1296\tx1440\tx2592\tx2880\tx3168\tx3600\tx4032\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 						created by Tom Michaud\
									1/8/87\
\
This file has an items list and a monster list. Items list has items name and an explanation. \
\
\pard\tx864\tx1152\tx1296\tx1440\tx2592\tx2880\tx3168\tx3600\tx4032\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Monsters list has just the name of monsters from strongest to weakest.\
\pard\tx864\tx1152\tx1296\tx1440\tx2592\tx2880\tx3168\tx3600\tx4032\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Bard's Tale Items List \
\pard\tx864\tx1152\tx1296\tx1440\tx2592\tx2880\tx3168\tx3600\tx4032\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 ----------------------\
\pard\tx864\tx1152\tx1296\tx1440\tx2592\tx2880\tx3168\tx3600\tx4032\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 (1)	Dragon Figurine -- Creates A Dragon For Your Special Slot.\
(2)	Mage Figurine   -- Creates A Mage For Your Special Slot.\
(3)	Troll Ring			-- Does The Same As Kiel's Magic Compass.\
(4)	Troll Staff			-- Unkown.\
(5)	Onyx Key			-- Used To Open Either The Gate To Mangar's                                         Tower\
								Or Kylearean's Tower.\
(6)	Crystal Sword   -- Used To Kill Crystal Golem.\
(7)	Stoneblade			-- Sword That Turns Monsters To Stone When ,\
								Struck With It.\
(8)	Travelhelm			-- Does The Same As Apport Arcane (Teleport \
								Spell).\
(9)	Death Dagger		-- Unknown.\
(10)  Mongo Figurine  -- Summons A Powerful Monster To Your Special                                       Slot. (11)  Lich Figurine   -- Summons A Lich To Your Special Slot.\
(12)  Eye				-- Used To Make Statue Of Mad God Come Alive.\
(13)  Master Key			-- Either Used To Open Gates To Mangar's Tower Or\
\pard\tx864\tx1152\tx1296\tx1440\tx2592\tx2880\tx3168\tx3600\tx4032\pardeftab720\ri0\qc
\cf0 Kylearean's Tower.\
\pard\tx864\tx1152\tx1296\tx1440\tx2592\tx2880\tx3168\tx3600\tx4032\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 (14)  Wiz Wand			-- Unknown.\
(15)  Silvr Circle		-- One Of The Geometric Figures To Get Past A\
\pard\tx864\tx1152\tx1296\tx1440\tx2592\tx2880\tx3168\tx3600\tx4032\pardeftab720\ri0\qc
\cf0 Point In Mangar's Tower.\
\pard\tx864\tx1152\tx1296\tx1440\tx2592\tx2880\tx3168\tx3600\tx4032\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 (16)  Silvr Triangle  -- One Of The Items Used To Get Past A Point In Mangar's Tower.\
(17)  Silvr Square		-- One Of The Items Used To Get Past A Point In\
								Mangar's Tower.\
(18)  Thor Figurine   -- Summons Thor To Your Party.\
(19)  Oldman Figurine -- Summons The Oldman(Very Powerful) To Your Party. (20)  Spectre Snare   -- Kills Opponents By Sucking Hp's Out Of Them. (21)  Staff Of Lor		-- Unknown.\
(22)  Mournblade			-- Powerful Sword.\
(23)  Powerstaff			-- Unknown.\
(24)  Dragonshield		-- Unknown.\
(25)  Dmnd Plate			-- Best Armor Around Town.\
(26)  Wargloves			-- Unknown.\
(27)  Lorehelm			-- Unknown.\
(28)  Dragonwand			-- Unknown.\
(29)  Kiel's Compass  -- Same As The Spell. (30)  Speedboots			-- Lowers Armor Class.\
(31)  Flamehorn			-- Weapon That Shoots Out Fire Like A Flamethrower.\
\pard\tx864\tx1152\tx1296\tx1440\tx2592\tx2880\tx3168\tx3600\tx4032\pardeftab720\ri0\qc
\cf0 Better Than Firehorn.\
\pard\tx864\tx1152\tx1296\tx1440\tx2592\tx2880\tx3168\tx3600\tx4032\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 (32)  Truthdrum			-- Unknown.\
(33)  Spiritdrum			-- Unknown.\
(34)  Pipes Of Pan		-- A Bard's Instrument That Has Magic Properties.\
(35)  Ring Of Power   -- Unknown.\
(36)  Deathring			-- Unknown.\
(37)  Ybarrashield		-- Lowers Armor Class\
(38)  Spectremace			-- Another Weapon.\
(39)  Dagstone			-- Does Same As Stoneblade.\
(40)  Arc's Eye			-- Unknown.\
(41)  Ogrewand			-- Unknown.\
(42)  Spirithelm			-- Unknown.\
(43)  Admt Plate			-- Second Best Armor.\
\pard\tx864\tx1008\tx1728\tx3168\tx3744\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 (44)  Bracers [4]	-- Lowers Armor Class.\
(45)  Arcshield	-- Lowers Armor Class.\
(46)  Pureshield	-- Lowers Armor Class.\
(47)  Magestaff	-- Unknown.\
(48)  Warstaff	-- Another Magic Weapon.\
(49)  Thief Dagger	-- Magic Weapon.\
(50)  Soul Mace	-- Magic Weapon.\
\pard\tx864\tx1008\tx1728\tx3168\tx3744\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 (51)  Witherstaff	-- Unknown.\
\
\pard\tx864\tx1008\tx1728\tx3168\tx3744\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 |-------------------------------------------------|		                                    |									    |\
|   Note: Those Items Listed That Don't Have An   | \
|		                                    	    |\
|		Explanation Are Unknown.            	    |\
|		                                    	    |\
\pard\tx864\tx1008\tx1728\tx3168\tx3744\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 |-------------------------------------------------|                      \
\pard\tx864\tx1008\tx1728\tx3168\tx3744\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 		Items Name:		        Explanation:\
	-------------		       --------------\
(52)  Socererstaff	--\
(53)  Sword Of Pak	--\
(54)  Heal Harp	--  Heals Party While Played By Bard.\
(55)  Golt's Flute	--  Bard's Instruent.\
(56)  Frost Horn	--  Another Flamethrower Type Weapon\
					That Shoots Frost Instead.\
(57)  Dnmd Sword	--  Good Sword.\
(58)  Dnmd Shield	--  Lower Armorclass.\
(59)  Dnmd Dagger	--  Another Weapon.\
(60)  Golem Figurine  --  Summons A Golem To Your Party. (61)  Titan Figurine  --  Summons A Titan To Your Party. (62)  Conjurer Staff  --\
(63)  Admt Scale	--  Lowers Armor Class.\
(64)  Lak's Lyre	--  Bard's Instrument.\
(65)  Shield Ring	--\
(66)  Dork Ring	--\
(67)  Fin's Flute	--  Bard's Instrument.\
(68)  Kael's Axe	--  Decent Magic Weapon.\
(69)  Blood Axe	--  " "\
(70)  Dayblade	--  " "\
(71)  Shield Staff	--  Lowers Armor Class.\
(72)  Elf Cloak	--  " "\
(73)  Hawkblade	--  Decent Weapon.\
(74)  Admt Sword	--  Magic Weapon.\
(75)  Admt Shield	--  Lowers Armor Class.\
(76)  Admt Dagger	--  Magic Weapon.\
(77)  Admt Helm	--  Lowers Armor Class.\
(78)  Admt Gloves	--  Lowers Armor Class.\
(79)  Admt Mace	--  Magic Weapon.\
(80)  Broom		--\
(81)  Exorwand	--\
(82)  Ali's Carpet	--  Acts As A Levitation Spell.\
(83)  Magic Mouth	--  Acts As A Second Sight Spell.\
(84)  Luckshield	--\
(85)  Giant Figurine  --  Summons A Giant To Your Party. (86)  Admt Chain	--  Lowers Armor Class.\
(87)  Mthr Sword	--  Magic Sword.\
(88)  Mthr Shield	--  Lowers Armor Class.\
(89)  Mthr Chain	--  " "\
(90)  Mthr Scale	--  " "\
(91)  Samurai Fig.	--  Summons A Samurai To Your Party.\
(92)  Bracers [6]	--  Lowers Armor Class.\
(93)  Bard Sword	--  Magic Weapon.\
(94)  Fire Horn	--  Sprays Fire On Opponents Doing\
					Massive Damage.Use When Desperate. (95)  Light Wand	--  Acts As A Mageflame Spell.\
(96)  Mthr Dagger	--  Magic Weapon.\
\pard\tx576\tx720\tx864\tx1440\tx1584\tx1872\tx2016\tx2736\tx3168\tx3312\tx3888\tx4176\tx5040\tx5472\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 (97)		Mthr Helm		--  Lowers Armor Class.\
(98)		Mthr Gloves		--  Lowers Armor Class.\
(99)		Mthr Axe		--  Magic Weapon.\
(100) Mthr Mace		--  " "\
(101) Mthr Sword		--  Magic Sword.\
\pard\tx576\tx720\tx864\tx1440\tx1584\tx1872\tx2016\tx2736\tx3168\tx3312\tx3888\tx4176\tx5040\tx5472\tx8208\pardeftab720\ri0\sa480\ql\qnatural
\cf0 (102) Ogre Figurine	--  Summons An Ogre For Your Party.\
There Are About 15, Give Or Take A Few, More Items On My List But They Are All In Garthe's Shoppe.\
\
\pard\tx576\tx720\tx864\tx1440\tx1584\tx1872\tx2016\tx2736\tx3168\tx3312\tx3888\tx4176\tx5040\tx5472\tx8208\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 											Bard's Tale Monster List\
								These Monsters Are Listed From Stongest\
\pard\tx576\tx720\tx864\tx1440\tx1584\tx1872\tx2016\tx2736\tx3168\tx3312\tx3888\tx4176\tx5040\tx5472\tx8208\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 								To Weakest.  Only Their Names Are Given.\
\
\pard\tx576\tx720\tx864\tqdec\tx1440\tx1584\tx1872\tx2016\tx2736\tx3168\tx3312\tx3888\tx4176\tqdec\tx5040\tx5472\tqdec\tx8208\pardeftab720\ri-1080\ql\qnatural
\cf0 			1.  Ancient  Enemy		37.  Demon	73. Lurker\
			2.  Balrog					38.  Banderswitch	74. Fire Giant \
			3.  Lich						39.  Maze Dweller	75. Coppergiant\
			4.  Archmage					40.  Manger	76. Samuai\
			5.  Demonlord					41.  Mandar Guard	77. Black Widow\
			6.  Oldman					42.  Gimp		78. Assassin\
			7.  Master Magician		43.  Red Dragon	79. Werewolf\
			8.  Master Sorcerer		44.  Titan	80. Ogre\
			9.  Master Conjurer		45.  Shadow	81. Wight\
		 10. Master Wizard			46.  Berserker	82. Statue\
			11. Mindshadow				47.  Conjurer	83. Bladesman\
			12. Spectre					48.  Magician	84. Goblin Lord\
			13. Cloud Giant				49.  Wizard	85. Masterthief\
			14. Greater Demon			50.  Sorcerer	86. Ninja\
			15. Mad God					51.  White Dragon	87. Spinner\
			16. Beholder					52.  Ice Giant	88. Scarletmonk\
			17. Vampire Lord				53.  Eye Spy	89. Dopplerganger\
			18. Maze Master				54.  Ogre Lord	90. Stone Giant              \
			19. Death Denzien			55.  Mad Dog	91. Spider                                       \
			20. Jaber					56.  Wolf		92. Thief\
			21. Black Dragon				57.  Phantom	93. Gnome\
			22. Mangar					58.  Lesser Demon	94. Dwarf\
			23. Crystal Golem			59.  Fred		95. Thief\
			24. Soulsucker				60.  Ogre Magi	96. Hobgoblin\
			25. Storm Giant				61.  Jackelware	97. Skeleton\
			26. Master Ninja				62.  Stone Elemental	98. Nomad\
			27. War Giant					63.  Blue Dragon	99. Spider\
			28. Elite					64.  Seeker	100. Mad Dog\
			29. Bonecrusher				65.  Dwarf King	101. Barbarian\
			30. Ghost					66.  Samurai Warrior	102. Mercenaries\
			31. Grey Dragon				67.  Ghoul	103. Wolf\
			32. Basilisk					68.  Azure Monk	104. Jade Wolf\
		 33. Evil Eye					69.  Weretiger	105. Half Orc\
			34. Mimic					70.  Hydra	106. Swordsman\
			35. Golem					71.  Green Dragon	107. Zombie\
\pard\tx576\tx720\tx864\tqdec\tx1440\tx1584\tx1872\tx2016\tx2736\tx3168\tx3312\tx3888\tx4176\tqdec\tx5040\tx5472\tqdec\tx8208\pardeftab720\ri-1080\sa720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 			36. Vampire					72.  Wraith\
\pard\tx576\tx720\tx864\tqdec\tx1440\tx1584\tx1872\tx2016\tx2736\tx3168\tx3312\tx3888\tx4176\tqdec\tx5040\tx5472\tqdec\tx8208\pardeftab720\ri0\sa480\ql\qnatural
\cf0 ********************************************************************** T O M   M I C H A U D\
\pard\tx576\tx720\tx864\tqdec\tx1440\tx1584\tx1872\tx2016\tx2736\tx3168\tx3312\tx3888\tx4176\tqdec\tx5040\tx5472\tqdec\tx8208\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\qc
\cf0 Magical Items And Weapons\
\pard\tx576\tx720\tx864\tqdec\tx1440\tx1584\tx1872\tx2016\tx2736\tx3168\tx3312\tx3888\tx4176\tqdec\tx5040\tx5472\tqdec\tx8208\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 	This Chart Will Tell You About Most Of The Items You Will Find In The Realm.  The First Number Tells If It Is Magical Or Non-Magical. The Second Letter Will Tell You If Thereis Any Other Possible Use For The Item.\
\pard\tx1296\tx1440\tx3888\tx4464\tx5040\tx5904\tx9936\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 		             0.Non-Magical	     1. Magical		                                    \
\pard\tx1296\tx1440\tx3888\tx4464\tx5040\tx5904\tx9936\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 			  1. Lowers A.C. Count\
			  2. Cast Spells\
			  3. Breath Fire/Frost\
\pard\tx1296\tx1440\tx3888\tx4464\tx5040\tx5904\tx9936\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 			  4. Create Figurine\
\
\pard\tx1296\tx1440\tx3888\tx4464\tx5040\tx5904\tx9936\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\qc
\cf0 Beginner Tips\
\pard\tx1296\tx1440\tx3888\tx4464\tx5040\tx5904\tx9936\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 	When Possible Equip Your Magic Users With Mage Staff. This Allows Them To Regenerate Spell Points In A Dungeon.\
			Magical Items And Weapons\
\pard\tx1296\tx1440\tx3888\tx4464\tx5040\tx5904\tx8360\tx8396\pardeftab720\ri-1120\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Admt Chain..............0	1	Mthr Dagger..............0		0\
Admt Dagger.............0	0	Mthr Gloves..............0		1\
Admt Gloves.............0	1	Mthr Helmet..............0		1\
Admt Helmet.............0	1	Mthr Mace................0		0\
Admt Mace...............0	0	Mthr Plate...............0		1\
Admt Plate..............0	1	Mthr Scale...............0		1\
Admt Scale..............0	1	Mthr Shield..............0		1\
Admt Sword..............0	0	Mthr Sword...............0		0\
Ag's Arrow..............0	0	Mthr Chains..............0		1\
Ali's Carpet............1	2	Pipes Of Pan.............1		2\
Angra's Eye.............1	2	Pure Blade...............0		0\
Aram's Knife............0	0	Ring Breath..............1		1\
Arc Shield..............1	2	Ring Death...............1  12\
Arc's Hammer............1  12	Ring Death...............1  12\
Arrows..................0	0	Ring Nospin..............1		2\
Bard Bow................0	0	Ring Of Power............1  12\
Bard Sword..............0	0	Ring Of Return...........1  12\
Blood Axe...............0	0	Ring Shield..............1		1\
Boomerang...............0	0	Ring Troll...............1		1\
Bracers.................0	1	Shield Dragon............1  13\
Brooms..................1  12	Shield Luck..............0		1\
Crystal Sword...........0	0	Shield Pure..............0		1\
Dag Stone...............1	2	Shuriken.................0		0\
Dayblade................1	2	Song Axe.................0		0\
Death Star..............0	0	Soul Mace................1		2\
Dmnd Chain..............0	1	Spear....................0		0\
Dmnd Dagger.............0	0	Spear....................0		0\
Dmnd Scale..............0	1	Spectere Mace............1		2\
Dmnd Shield.............0	1	Spectere Snare...........1  12\
Dmnd Sword..............0	0	Speed Boots..............1		2\
Dmnd Plate..............0	1	Spell Spear..............1		2\
Drums Of Death..........1	2	Spirit Drums.............1		2\
Dynamite................0	0	Spirit Helmet............1  12\
Elf Boots...............1	1	Staff Conjurer...........1  12\
Elf Cloak...............0	1	Staff Mage...............1  12\
Fgn Brother.............1	4	Staff Of Lore............1  12\
Fgn Dozer...............1	4	Staff Of Power...........1  12\
Fgn Herb................1	4	Staff Shield.............1  12\
Fgn Molten..............1	4	Staff Sorcerer...........1  12\
Fgn Urge................1	4	Staff Troll..............1  12\
Fgn Slayer..............1	4	Staff War................1  12\
Fgn Van.................1	4	Staff Wither.............1  12\
Fgn Van.................1	4	Stoneblade...............1		2\
Fin's Flute.............1	2	Sword Of Pak.............1		1\
Galt's Flute............1	2	Sword Of Zar.............0		0\
Gauntlets...............0	1	Thief Dagger.............0		0\
Hawkblade...............0	0	Thor's Hammer............0		0\
Healing Harp............1	2	Trick-Brick..............1		2\
Holy Handgrenade........0	0	Truth Drum...............1		2\
Horn Cold...............1	3	Wand Dragon..............1		2\
Horn Fire...............1	3	Wand Dragon..............1		2\
Horn Flame..............1	3	Wand Exor................1		2\
\pard\tx288\tx1008\tx2592\tx3456\tx4032\tx4176\tx4320\tx4752\tx5040\tx5904\tx6336\tx6624\tx7200\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Horn Frost..............1   3	\
Wand Giant..............1	2\
Kato Bracer.............0   1	\
Wand Light..............1	2\
Keal's Axe..............0   0	\
Wand Lite...............1	2\
Lore Helmet.............1   2	\
Wand Master.............1	2\
Lyr's Flute.............1   2	\
War Gloves..............0	1\
Mournblade..............0   0	\
Wiz Helmet..............1  12\
Mthr Arrows.............0   0	\
Ybarrashi Shield........1  12\
Mthr Axe................0   0	\
\pard\tx288\tx1008\tx2592\tx3456\tx4032\tx4176\tx4320\tx4752\tx5040\tx5904\tx6336\tx6624\tx7200\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Zen Arrows..............0	0\
\
\pard\tx288\tx1008\tx2592\tx3456\tx4032\tx4176\tx4320\tx4752\tx5040\tx5904\tx6336\tx6624\tx7200\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 					The Bard's Tale II\
\pard\tx288\tx1008\tx2592\tx3456\tx4032\tx4176\tx4320\tx4752\tx5040\tx5904\tx6336\tx6624\tx7200\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\qc
\cf0 Monster  Reference\
\pard\tx288\tx1008\tx2592\tx3456\tx4032\tx4176\tx4320\tx4752\tx5040\tx5904\tx6336\tx6624\tx7200\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 	This Monster Reference Will Try To Help You Identify Most Of The Monsters You Will Encounter.  This Reference Tries To Show All The Monsters You Will Encounter In The Realm.  The First Number Will Tell You How Dangerous The Monster Is.  The Second Number Warns You About The Monsters Special Powers, So Always Refer To This Chart.\
			1st Number					 2nd Number \
\pard\tx288\tx1008\tx2592\tx3456\tx4032\tx4176\tx4320\tx4752\tx5040\tx5944\tx6336\tx6624\tx7200\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 1 = Easy	0 = Regular Attack	5 = Drain Level\
2 = Medium	1 = Cast Spells		    	6 = Cause Nut/Ins.\
3 = Hard	2 = Breath Fire/Frost   7 = Possed	  \
4 = Very Hard	3 = Phaze Spell Point   8 = Critical Hit\
\pard\tx288\tx1008\tx2592\tx3456\tx4032\tx4176\tx4320\tx4752\tx5040\tx5944\tx6336\tx6624\tx7200\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 5 = Dangerous	4 = Poison				    	9 = Turn To Stone\
\
\pard\tx288\tx1008\tx2592\tx3456\tx4032\tx4176\tx4320\tx4752\tx5040\tx5904\tx6336\tx6624\tx7200\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 								Words Of Wisdom \
\pard\tx288\tx1008\tx2592\tx3456\tx4032\tx4176\tx4320\tx4752\tx5040\tx5904\tx6336\tx6624\tx7200\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 						Near				Earth \
						Endurable		Compassed \
						Death Sword		Fountain \
						Kazdek			Mangar \
						Dervak			Pass \
						Wise One		Wise \
						Fred				Staff Of War\
						Havoc			Zen Master\
						Still			Staff Of Old \
						Arkast			Gale \
						Storm Fist		Aram \
\pard\tx288\tx1008\tx2592\tx3456\tx4032\tx4176\tx4320\tx4752\tx5040\tx5904\tx6336\tx6624\tx7200\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\sa480\ql\qnatural
\cf0 						Freeze			Please \
\
\pard\tx288\tx1008\tx2592\tx3456\tx4032\tx4176\tx4320\tx4752\tx5040\tx5904\tx6336\tx6624\tx7200\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 							Monster Reference \
\pard\tx288\tx1008\tx2592\tx3456\tx4032\tx4176\tx4320\tx4752\tx5040\tx5904\tx6336\tx6624\tx7200\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Abyssians.....3  0	Dragon Malar...5 23	Guards...........3  0 \
Aragadoom.....3  4	Dragon Maze....5  2	Hawkins..........3  0 \
Archers.......3  0	Dragon Toy.....5  2	Hazer............3  3 \
Arn Wraith....5 15	Dragon Voor....5  2	Head Banger......3  0 \
Assaians......2  0	Dragon Vren....5  2	Hound Sprites....4  1 \
Astral Guards.2  0	Dragon Web.....5 24	Howler...........3  0 \
Axemen........2  0	Dragon Zone....5  2	Hunter...........3  8 \
Bander........3  1	Dreadnoughts...3  2	Iceholes.........3  1 \
Barbarian.....2  0	Drens..........2  0	Ichors Fiends....4  1 \
Basalick......5  9	Dust Soldiers..3  0	Ingroid..........4  4 \
Battle Lord...2  0	Dust Samurai...3  0	Jack Of Diamond..4  1 \
Be Far Wizard.2  0	Dust Wizard....3  1	Jack Of Hearts...4  1 \
Berserker.....2  0	Enforcer.......3  0	Jack Of Spades...4  1 \
Black Skull...3  4	Evil Doers.....3  1	Jack Of Spades...4  1 \
Blood Sucker..5 15	Far Archers....3  0	Kinstrals........3  1 \
Blood Wraith..5 15	Fazers.........3  1	Knifeman.........3  0 \
Bloodmen......5  5	Fire Guards....3  2	Knifemen.........3  0 \
Blue Ghost....5  5	Fire Master....3  2	Kobolds..........3  0 \
Bogster.......4  6	Flame Guard....3  2	Kwi Chang........3  0 \
Bonemen.......3  1	Flame Mage.....3  2	Larry............3  0 \
Bragart.......2  0	Flame Master...3  2	Leaper...........3  0 \
Brockter......2  0	Flame Scion....3  2	Liches...........4 14 \
\pard\tx2596\tx3600\tx4032\tx5884\tx7200\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Brutes........3  0 Flame Sprites..3  2    Living Dead......3  0 \
Bugger........2  0	Flayer.........2  0	Lizard Men.......3  0 \
Cannibals.....2  0	Flesh Eater....2  0	Mad Mages........4  1 \
Carbonite.....4  9	Fracter........3  9	Madco Mage.......3  1 \
Centron.......2  0	Fred...........3  0	Mage Of Alk......4  1 \
Champion......2  0	Frights........3  0	Major Domos......3  0 \
Cloudmen......2  0	Garslayer......3  8	Maker............3  1 \
Cool Dudes....2  0	Ghast..........5  5	Makrons..........3  0 \
Corpes........3  0	Ghost Force....5  5	Man Masher.......4  0 \
Crambos.......2  0	Ghost Gore.....5 15	Mantise..........3  4 \
Crypt Killer..3  0	Ghost Maul.....5 15	Manwall..........4 15 \
Crypt Knight..3  0	Ghoul Maul.....5 15	Master Mage......3  1 \
Cryslar.......3  0	Giant Black....3  0	Master Sword.....3  0 \
Cyclone.......3  0	Giant Bosco....4  9	Matt Dop.........3  0 \
Dark Acolute..3  1	Giant Death....4  0	Maze Lizard......3  0 \
Dark Mages....3  0	Giant Far......4  0	Medarrch.........3 12 \
Dark Vampire..5 15	Giant Jag......4  4	Medusa...........5  9 \
Dazzler.......3  0	Giant Mist.....3  0	Micro Mage.......4  1 \
Dead King.....4 15	Giant Poison...4  1	Mind Mimics......3  0 \
Death Dealer..3  1	Fiant Power....4  0	Minzu Dials......4  4 \
Death Ghoul...3  1	Giant Pumel....3  4	Mongrel..........3  0 \
Death Reaper..3  0	Giant Rock.....4  9	Monk Melee.......3  0 \
Death Sword...3  0	Giant War......3  0	Monk Menzo.......3  0 \
Denizen Pois..4  4	Giant Zado.....4  4	Muti Mage........3  1 \
Desicator.....3 14	Giant Zag......4  4	Ninja Grey.......3  8 \
Devil Dogs....2  0	Giant Zone.....4  0	Ninja............3  8 \
Devourers.....2  0	Giants Cave....2  0	Nite Dweller.....3  0 \
Dimond Dogs...2  0	Giants.........4  1	Officer..........3  0 \
Doppleganger..4  7	Gnolls.........3  1	Ogre Hero........3  1 \
Dragon Blue...5  2	Golem Mike.....5  9	Ogre.............3  1 \
Dragon Brass..5 12	Golem Rack.....4  9	Orc Warriors.....3  0 \
Dragon Death..5 28	Golem Stone....4  9	Orcs.............3  0 \
Dragon Drain..5 25	Gozem..........3  0	Phaz-Monster.....3  3 \
Dragon Gard...5  4	Greklin........3  1	Pickpocket.......3  0 \
Dragon Grin...5  2	Grey Acolytes..4  1	Pit Skrull.......4  2 \
Dragon Grind..5  2	Groper.........4  5	Pogo Men.........3  4 \
Dragon Keel...5  2	Guardians......4  9	Poltergeist......3  0 \
Dragon Krae...5  2	Guards Men.....4  0	Pyros............3  1 \
Racknid Men...3  4	Slarggoth......3  0	Titan Air........3  0 \
Rak Monger....3  1	Slayer Lord....3  8	Titan Land.......3  0 \
Ranger........2  0	Slayer.........3  8	Tomb Guards......3  0 \
Rock Block....3  0	Slimer.........3  0	Translyan........5  5 \
Sahara Guards.3  1	Sorcerer.......3  1	Troglodytes......3  4 \
Samurai.......3  0	Soron..........3  1	Troll Master.....3  1 \
Sancrilar.....3 12	Soul Sucker....3  1	Troll............3  1 \
Sargon........3  1	Specteres......3  1	Troy Dop.........3  1 \
Scarblader....5 12	Spell Caster...3  1	Undead Fred......3  1 \
Shadow Lord...3  1	Stalker........3  0	Vampire Lord.....5 15 \
Shadow........3  1	Statue.........3  0	Vampire..........5  5 \
Sinisters.....3  1	Steelfist......3  0	Vikings..........3  0 \
Sinstrike.....3  1	Stone Elemental3 49	Voide Shade......3  0 \
Skelemen......3  1	Sunnoner.......3  1	Warlock..........3  1 \
Skull Warden..3  0	Swordmen.......3  0	Wight............3  4 \
Slagoths......3  1	Tanderclaw.....3 46	Willo Wisp.......4  1 \
\pard\tx2596\tx3600\tx4032\tx5884\tx7200\tx10080\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Thrasher......3  0	Zombie King......3 14 \
}