{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17640\viewh16280\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Legend of Skara Brae\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	**\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\li288\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ****  ong ago, when magic still prevailed, the evil wizard Mangar the Dark threatened a small but harmonious country town called Skara Brae. Evil ***** creatures oozed into Skara Brae and joined his shadow domain. Mangar ***** froze the surrounding lands with a spell of Eternal Winter, totally isolating Skara Brae from any possible help. Then, one night the town militia men all disappeared.\
	The future of Skara Brae hung in the balance. And who was left to resist? Only a handful of unproven young Warriors, junior Magic Users, a couple of Bards barely old enough to drink, and some out of work Rogues.\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\li288\ri0\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	You are there. You are the leader of this ragtag group of freedom fighters. Luckily you have a Bard with you to sing your glories, if you survive. For this is the stuff of legends. And so the story begins...\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 				* *\
			*** ***\
				*                      The Bard's Tale *\
			*** ***\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 				* *\
The Manual\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 About Fantasy Role playing Games\
\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 THE BARDS TALE is a fantasy role-playing game. First in a series of Tales of the Unknown, this one is set in the city of Skara Brae.\
Like other fantasy role-playing games, there are three objectives you will be trying to accomplish. How you do this is up to you...\
Your most inportant goal is to complete the quest built into the game. In THE BARD'S TALE the city of Skara Brae is threatened by an evil mage called Manger. You must find Mangar and "persuade" him to release the once-harmonious city from his evil control.\
But Mangar is protected by layers of obstacles, mazes and evil henchment. Your second goal is to develop characters capable of surviving these barriers. These characters are your alter ego in THE BARD'S TALE. They act according to your commands, but over the course of the game they change, much as real people do over a lifetime. They improve their skills in magic, combat, stealth, etc. They amass wealth and treasured objects. And they worry about dying too soon.\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Your third goal is to explore the entire world of THE BARD'S TALE. There are numerous goodies, puzzles, and special places in Skara Brae. Part of the fun is finding them, and discovering the layout of this fantasy world. How do you get into the walled off towers? What's in the castle? Where are the legendary catacombs of Skara Brae?\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Table of Contents\
A	Quick Overview	Section 1\
Characters		Section 2\
Places			Section 3\
The combat System	Section 4\
The Magic System	Section 5\
Conjurer Spells	Section 6\
Magician Spells	Section 7\
Sorceror Splles	Section 8\
Wizard Spells	Section 9\
Bard Songs		Section 10\
Spell Key Glossary	Section 11\
Tips from the Underground	Section 12\
Items			Section 13\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf0 So turn the page and get started. Skara Brae awaits.\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Section i                               A QUICK OVERVIEW \
=-------=-------------------------------=--------------=\
\
An orientation for beginners,\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 a	quick start guide for experts.\
\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 How to Use This Manual\
\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 This Manual has three parts. This overview is designed to give first-time adventure gamers a quick sence of the overall gameplay and give experienced fantasy role-players all they need to know to start quickly.\
The rest of the manual is reference material about how various parts of THE BARD'S TALE operate, including character building and development, places and mapping, the combat system and the magic system. There is also a listing and description of  all the magic spells and the beginning items available in THE BARD'S TALE. Finally, there are hints and clues interspersed throughout the manual.\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Command Summary Card\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In another text file is a Command Summary Card, which lists keystroke commands, disk utilities and step-by-step instructions for starting up. If you are an experienced adventurer, this card gives you most of what you need to know; the rest is covered in this section.\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2. Adventurer's Guild\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The ADVENTURER'S GUILD is where you start each time. This is the only spot a party can be formed, characters created, or characters saved to disk.\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3. Use the Pre-Built Party\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For your convenience, you will find a pre-built party already waiting for you when you enter the guild for the first time. The party is called *ATeam. They are even outfitted with weapons and armor affordable to characters of their humble stations. For more about characters and party selection see section 2\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 4. Use City Map on The Package\
On the inside of your "album cover" is a map of Skara Brea. You'll need it. Notice:\
-2 walled-off towers (wonder what's in there?)\
-A castle protected by Guardian Statues\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\li288\fi-288\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 -Temples for healing, Equipment Shop for purchasing more weapons, Taverns for drink and gossip, Roscoe's for more spell energy.\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\li288\fi-288\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 -You'll have to find the Review Board (where levels are awarded and magic is taught) on your own.\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\li288\fi-288\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Mapping the dungeons and mazes is up to you. You even have to figure out how to get into the mazes on your own. One clue: each of the 16 mazes is set up on a 22 by 22 grid. North is to the top of the screen, East is to the right. Be sure to go to every square; there are lots of specials.\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\li288\fi-288\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For more about the City of Skara Brae see "Places" in section three.\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\li288\fi-288\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 5. Combat\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\li288\fi-288\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Only your first 3 characters and the first 2 rows of monsters can attack in hand-to-hand combat.\
There are several new combat commands, including Party Attack, for fighting between party members; Bard song, for making magic by playing music; Hide in Shadows, to avoid combat.\
For more information see "The Combat System" in section four.\
\pard\tx288\tx576\tx1296\tx1440\tx5760\pardeftab720\li288\fi-288\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 6. Magic\
There are 4 classes of Magic users, each with unique magical capabilities:\
\pard\tx720\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 CONJURERS can create objects and heal adventurers; MAGICIANS can bestow magical effets on common items ; SORCERORS can create illusions and heighten awareness ; WIZARDS can summon and control supernatural creatures ;\
Sorceror and Wizard classes are not available to first level adventurers. To create one of these, you must change class of a Magic User who has achieved 3rd level magic spells in one (for Sorceror) or two (for Wizard) other magical arts. Class change takes place in the Review Board. A Magic User who successfully learns all 7 levels of spells for each of the 4 Magic Classes is an Archmage, one of hte most powerful characters in THE BARD'S TALE. Once a Magic User leaves a class, he can never return to it.\
Magic Users qualify to learn next level spells based on their experience leves, but it takes gold to actually learn the new spells.\
Casting spells uses SPELL POINTS in different amounts depending on the spell. Spell points are regenerated automatically when a Magic User is in the City in the daytime, and may also be regenerated in Roscoe's Energy Emporium, or special "REGEN" squares in some dugeons.\
For more information see "The Magic System" in section 5. Magic Spells are listed in sections 6-9.\
\pard\tx720\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 7. The Bard\
\pard\tx720\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Bard makes magic by playing music. He needs an instrument, of course. He can play in combat or during exploration, with different effect. Only one tune at a time. And one tune for every experience level. Then he needs to get a drink from any nearby tavern.\
You can listen to his music or not. See the COMMAND SUMMARY file for details.\
By the way, the Bard is not too shabby as a fighter.\
\pard\tx720\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 8. TIME\
\pard\tx720\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Time waits for no one. Even without keystrokes, time passes, from day to night and back again.\
Nightime is especially nasty. The really evil monsters hit the city streets at night, looking for characters just like you. And, what's worst, you use up spell points faster, because spell points only regenerate in daylight.\
\pard\tx720\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Now you know enough to get started, if you are an experienced adventuer. By the way, the tavern on Rakhir Street is the only tavern that serves wine. And that wine "goes down" easily. You may wish to drop by to wet the whistle of your Bard. Good Luck!\
\pard\tx720\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Section II                              CHARACTERS \
=--------=------------------------------=--------=\
\pard\tx720\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 RACES\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Humans are not the only race in the world of THE BARD'S TALE. others are more magically inclined, stronger and smarter. Part of the fun of a fantasy role-playing game is getting to know these different races, and forming your party accordingly. The races and their descriptions are:\
\pard\tx720\tx1008\pardeftab720\li1008\fi-1008\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 HUMAN: While possibly being of hardier stock, This caracter is nonetheless like you or me.\
\pard\tx720\tx1008\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ELF: Patterned after the Tolkien elf, the elf is slight or build, frequently taller than a human, and very inclined to magic.\
\pard\tx720\tx1008\pardeftab720\li1008\fi-1008\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DWARF: The Dwarven people are short and stout, extremely strong and healty, but not amazingly intelligent (i.e., excellent fighters).\
\pard\tx1008\tx1152\tx1440\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx1008\tx1152\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1152\fi-1152\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 HOBBIT: Hobbits are slightly smaller than Dwarves but are nimble and dexterous. Just the right make-up for a rogue.\
\pard\tx1008\tx1152\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 HALF-ELF: These crossbreeds are usually blong and fair-skinned, like elves, and get some added size and strenght from their human ancestry.\
HALF-ORC: An orc is a large, goblin-like creature often found working for evil wizards. The Half-orc, being half human, is not quite as despicable as his orc parent, but you wouldn't want to date one.\
\pard\tx1008\tx1152\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1008\fi-1008\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 GNOME: Gnomes closely resemble dwarves, but have less hair and even shorter tempers. They are also more magically inclined, as a rule.\
\
\pard\tx1008\tx1152\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1008\fi-1008\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 CHARACTER CLASSES\
\
\pard\tx1008\tx1152\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1008\fi-1008\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In fantasy role-playing games, characters choose different "Classes" or professions. There is no single best class; each has its own strengths. Your character must use teamwork to succeed.\
Class selection is the most important aspect of creating a character in THE BARD'S TALE. There are ten different classes of characters, but only 8 can be selected for a newly generated character. Class types carry with them different abilities and limitations, as are roughly covered below:\
WARRIOR: the base fighter-type in THE BARD'S TALE, warriors can use nearly every weapon there is. For every 4 levels of experience after the 1st Warriors get an extra attack ability in combat.\
PALADIN: Paladins are fighters who have sworn to abstain from all evil and to uphold honor and purity in all places. They can use most weapons and even some that no other fighter can. They get multiple attacks at higher levels. They also have a greatly increased resistance to evil magic.\
ROGUE: a professional thief with so-so combat ability, the rogue can hide in shadows, search for traps and disarm them. Without a rogue your party will pay very dearly for the booty it wins.\
BARD: The Bard is a wandering minstrel. You'll see him with a tankard of ale in front of him in the less reputable traverns--the rowdier the better.\
\pard\tx0\tx0\tx1008\pardeftab720\li28\fi-28\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Bards were once warriors, and can still use most warrior weapons. But they turned to music instead and now play songs with an almost magical effect on other characters. Bards don't get the warrior's advantage of extra attacks in combat anymore--but their magic is so unique, it is almost impossible to survive in Skara Brae without one.\
Any true Bard has 6 tunes on his lips, though to play them he must have an instument equipped. A song played as the party is exploring is long-lasting and continues even after the party returns from combat mode, even if other songs were played during combat. Any songs played during combat are abbreviated and so create different magical effects then the full non-combat versions. The shorter combat versions don't endure as long either, only one round of fighting\
Only one Bard tune can be played at a time. If a second one is played while the first is still playing (by the same or a different Bard), the first will end. A bard can play as many tuens as he has experience levels before his throat gets dry. Then it's off to a tavern for a drink to rejuvenate his voice. Tough duty, but someone has to do it.\
\pard\tx1008\tx1152\tx1440\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Bard songs vary according to the difficulty of the dungeon. When the going gets tough, the Bard goes drinking.\
\pard\tx1008\tx1152\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1008\fi-1008\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 HUNTER: an assassin, a mercenary, a ninja. The hunter can use most weapons, and has the ability (which grows with experience) to do critical hits in combat (i.e.,to attack a nerve center or other vital area and instantly kill an opponent). A good skill\
\
\pard\tx1008\tx1152\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1008\fi-1008\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 MONK: a martial artist, an almost inhuman fighting machine trained to fight without weapons or armor. The monk can use them, but, at higher levels particulary, often does better without.\
CONJURER: one of the 4 classes of Magic Users, Conjurers deal in the physical creation and manifestation of real things (like fire,light,healing).\
MAGICIAN: another of the 4 classes of Magic Users, Magicians deal with magic as it affects physical objects(i.e. enchanting a sword, making armor stronger, making a dungeon wall disappear).\
\pard\tx1008\tx1152\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1008\fi-1008\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 WIZARD: Wizards are Magic Users who are dedicated to the summoning and binding of various supernatural creatures. These creatures are not friendly to humankind and trying to control them is extremely hazardous. The Wizard-class is not available to new characters either.\
\
\pard\tx1008\tx1152\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1008\fi-1008\ri0\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For more on magic classes, see page 11.\
\pard\tx1008\tx1152\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1008\fi-1008\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
CHARACTER ATTRIBUTES\
\pard\tx1008\tx1152\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1008\fi-1008\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Each character you create has five basic attributes which define his physical and mental prowess. When you create a character each attribute is randomly assigned a value from 1 to 18, with the higher number reflecting higher capability.\
STRENGTH (Shown as "ST" on the screen): Strength is physical power and chiefly affects the amount of damage a character can do to an opponent in hand-to-hand combat. Make sure your fighting characters are strong.\
INTELLIGENCE ("IQ"): Intelligence is mental power. A high intelligence rating will enable your Magic Users to get bonus spell points.\
DEXTERITY ("DX"): Measures agility & nimbleness. A high score makes your characters harder to hit and helps them strike the first blow in combat.\
CONSTITUTION ("CN"): Measures healthiness. It takes more damage to kill a character with a high constitution score. This is reflected in bonus "hit points," the characters life span.\
LUCK ("LK"): Luck is an ambiguous attribute, as it has a number of unseen effects on gameplay. For example, lucky characters are more likely to resist evil magic and avoid nasty traps.\
\pard\tx1008\tx1152\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1008\fi-1008\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
OTHER CHARACTER STATISTICS\
\pard\tx1008\tx1152\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1008\fi-1008\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
ARMOR CLASS ("AC"): This statistic reflects the level of protection a character has from physical attack. In classic fantasy role-playing style, the armor class starts at 10 for a totally unprotected, unarmored character with low dexterity, and goes down to -10 (called LO) as his protection improves by armor, spells, or other means.\
HIT POINTS ("HITS"): Hit points measure the damage a character can take before he is killed. The "Hits" statistic shows his potential at fullest health, rather than current status.\
CONDITION ("COND"): Condition shows the character's present number of hit points. For example, if a character with 10 hit points is wounded for 7 hit points, his condition will drop to 3. Another wound of 3 or more hit points will kill him. If he is fully healed, his condition will return to the full 10 again. (Even though his Condition scores changes, his Hit Points stay at 10.)\
SPELL POINTS ("SP PT"): This shows current spell point status. Points are used up with each cat of a magic spell. If a conjurer has 20 spell points and casts a Mage Flame spell at a cost of 2 spell points, his new total would be 18. A character's maximum spell points are listed in his view-character mode.\
\pard\tx1008\tx1152\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1008\fi-1008\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 EXPERIENCE POINTS: This measures abilities gained by experience, the higher the number, the better the character. Characters get experience points for successful combat, according to the difficulty of the fight and the number of characters who survive. The amount is indicated after every successful combat. A character's running total of experience points is indicated in view-mode.\
\pard\tx432\tx1008\tx1440\tx2160\tx2304\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
GOLD: Gold is the unit of currency in this world. Your characters start with just barely enough gold to by the armor and weapons they need to survive. There are two ways to get rich enough to by better equipment: taking gold from the monsters you defeat in combat or selling items you find in dungeons. The first way is more fun.\
LEVEL ("LV 1"): Level is a general measure of achievement within a character's class. Level 1 is a novice, Level 13, for example, is required to become a Master of a Magic User Class.\
The Review Board will promote a character to higher levels based on his experience points, but only upon the character's in-person request. An advance in level is very important because it generally means an increase in attribute scores, hit points, spell points and other abilities.\
SPELL LEVELS (e.g., "MAGI 1"): This shows the highest group of magic spells a character canb use in any of the 4 classes of Magic Users. There are 7 groups of magic spells for each different class.\
\pard\tx432\tx1008\tx1440\tx2160\tx2304\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 To learn a new group of magic spells (a "spell level"), a Magic User must advance two experience levels. (NOTE: spell levels and experience levels are not the same thing!) For any of the four magic classes, a Magic User advances as follows:\
\
			E\\#xperience Leve\\#l S\\#pell Leve\\#l\
			=______________= =_________=\
\pard\tx432\tx1008\tx1440\tx2160\tx2304\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\partightenfactor0
\cf0 					1 1\
					2 1\
					3 2\
					5 3\
					7 4\
					9 5\
				11 6\
				13 7\
				14 and up 7 maximum\
\
\pard\tx432\tx1008\tx1440\tx2160\tx2304\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf0 To change class to Sorceror, a Magic User must first have learned Spell Level 3 (or higher) in at least one magical art. To change to Wizard, a Magic User must first have learned Spell Level 3 (or higher) in two other magical arts.\
ITEMS: Items fall into 10 categories: Weapons, shields, armor, helms, gloves, musical instruments, figurines, rings, wands, and miscellaneous. Only one item of each type can be equipped for use at any one time. For example, two different shields cannot be used at once to protect a character, though the spare shield could be toted around.\
Some items can only be used by specific characters. For example, only Bards can use musical instruments. An item which can never by used by a character is marked (see below for diagram) when he examines it in his view mode or in the equipment shoppe. An item which has been equipped is marked with an (see below)\
\pard\tx432\tx1008\tx1440\tx2160\tx2304\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Cant be used                            Equipped\
\pard\tx432\tx1008\tx1440\tx2160\tx2304\pardeftab720\li1008\fi-576\ri0\sl240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ------------                            -------\
**			                               *\
\pard\tx432\tx720\tx864\tx1008\pardeftab720\li720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	*  *                                     * ******                                   * * \
\pard\tx432\tx720\tx864\tx1008\pardeftab720\li1008\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *  *                                   *   * **                                    *****\
\pard\tx432\tx720\tx864\tx1008\pardeftab720\li1008\fi-144\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A character can carry up to 8 different items.\
\
How to Create a Character\
\pard\tx432\tx720\tx864\tx1008\pardeftab720\li1008\fi-1004\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. While in the Adventurer's Guild, select a race. \
\pard\tx0\pardeftab720\li652\fi-652\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2. Character attribute numbers displayed are a combination of genes and luck For each different race there is a lowest possible number for each attibute (the "genes"). The computer then adds a random number (the "luck") to each attribute.\
\pard\tx432\tx720\tx864\tx1008\pardeftab720\li432\fi-432\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3. If you are satisfied with the "roll of the dice", choose a character class, then name this caracter. If you arn't satisfied "reroll the dice."\
\pard\tx432\tx720\tx864\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 4. After being named, the character will be saved to disk, ready to adventure.\
\
Section 3                               Places \
=-------=-------------------------------=----=\
\pard\tx432\tx720\tx864\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 THE CITY MAP\
\pard\tx432\tx720\tx864\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
There is a map of Skara Brae on the inside of the album cover your program disk came in. Notice that there are several important looking places that are blocked off. Like the castle, and the two towers protected by locked gates. There must be a way to get in there, wouldn't you think?\
Use your map to guide you in Skara Brae. If you ever get lost just press the "?" key and the program will tell you where you are and what type of day it is.\
\pard\tx432\tx720\tx864\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 UNMARKED BUILDINGS\
\pard\tx432\tx720\tx864\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Most buildings in Skara Brae are unmarked. But some of them are inhabited by the corrupt creatures who have skulked into Skara Brae. So kick in a few doors and find them. Remember that fighting is good for you; it's the only way to build up enough experience to challenge Magar. Your should be disappointed when you kick in a door, screaming a battle cry, and find it empty. No fun.\
When you exit a building and enter a street, the building will be behind you, and you will be facing the building or landmark across the street.\
\pard\tx432\tx720\tx864\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 THE ADVENTURER'S GUILD\
\pard\tx432\tx720\tx864\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Guild is like a union hall where adventurers "hang out" hoping to join a party. This is where you form a party, and where all adventures begin.\
\pard\tx432\tx720\tx864\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 GARTH'S EQUIPMENT SHOPPE\
\pard\tx432\tx720\tx864\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Garth is one of yesterday's almost forgotten heroes, now retired from active adventuring to supply tommorrow's would-be greats. At Garth's Shoppe characters can buy armor and weapons, sell items, have items identified, or pool all the party's gold for buying expensive items. Due to a deal with the city blacksmith Garth has an inifinite supply of armor and supplies. But unique items found in labyrinths, even if sold to Garth, remain in his inventory only untill they are sold.\
Occasionally an item won in combat will remain unidentified. This means that its general type might be apparent (e.g.,shield,ring), but not which exact type (e.g.,Dragon shield, Ring of Power). Garth canb identify this item for you..for a price.\
\pard\tx432\tx720\tx864\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 THE REVIEW BOARD\
\pard\tx432\tx720\tx864\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Review Board is a group of high level representatives from all ten different classes. Upon your request in person, the Board will determine whether a character has accumulated enough experience points for advancement to higher levels. The Board teaches new spells to Magic Users who qualify for higher spell leves, too, but charges for this training. It pays the rent.\
\pard\tx432\tx720\tx864\tx1008\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 You may have to do a bit of exploring to locate the Review Board. And it's closed at night.\
\pard\tx288\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
TAVERNS\
\pard\tx288\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Taverns are the Bard's favorite pllaces for gossip and refreshment. There's even a tavern named after him. Watch him carefully though; the Bard has a tendency to overtip the bartender.\
\pard\tx288\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DUNGEON DELVING\
\pard\tx288\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The term "dungeon" refers to any indoor labyrinth, designed for mapping, combat and puzzle interaction. They take a variety of forms, from towers to catacombs, and have a varied number of levels for each. You can go up or down to levels higher and lower then the one you're on via stairways, portals, and teleportation.\
Stairways are not visible from a distance. But when you omve onto one you will be asked if you wish to ascend or descend.\
Portals are holes in the floors and ceilings, and are visible from a distance. You will not go through a portal merely by standing on it; you must first command your character to do so. If he jumps down through a portal, he will be damaged from the fall unless he is using a levitation spell. The only way to go up through a portal is by levitation.\
The locations of dungeon entrances are well-kept secrets, but there are plenty of hints in Skara Brae.\
\pard\tx288\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ROSCOE'S ENERGY EMPORIUM\
\pard\tx288\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 If your spell points aren't recharging fast enough, go see Roscoe, But be prepared for electrifyingly high fees.\
\pard\tx288\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 TEMPLES\
Temples are divine places of resurrection and complete healing. In fact, this is the only place to cure characters who have been withered or turned to stone. A	resurrected character retains all the items, gold and experience points he\
\pard\tx288\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 had before dying, but he comes to life with only 1 hit point. When he finds out how much it costs to be resurrected, he may turn over in his grave.\
\pard\tx288\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Tips from the Underground: Places\
\pard\tx288\tx432\pardeftab720\li432\fi-432\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
1. Your first three dungeons should be the sewers, the catacombs and the castle (in that order). Each is progressively tougher. Don't attempt the catacombs without a party of level 9 or higher characters.\
2. Explore and map every square in every maze. There are "Magic Mouths" that give hints. There are 1-of-a-kind magic items and spell regeneration zones. Good maps will show you the logical spots for secret doors and secret rooms, too.\
3. Avoid traps. Higher level rogues are excellent at opening chests, but when in doubt use the "Trapzap" spell. TRZP is guaranteed to work with no harm to the party, unless, of course, the trap is protected by even more powerful magic. In fact, you can use TRZP to disarm any traps you encounter. Gas Cloud traps have doomed many brave but foolish adventurers. If you set off a trap and nothing happens, you were lucky not good. You could have been killed.\
4. Be sure that your paryt is fully healed before entering a new dungeon.\
\pard\tx288\tx432\pardeftab720\li432\fi-432\ri0\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf0 5. When you are finding your bearings in a maze remember that each succeeding level goes UP in a tower or castle and DOWN in a dungeon.\
\pard\tx288\tx432\pardeftab720\li432\fi-432\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	**     **\
	***   ***\
	** * * **\
	**  *  **\
	**     **\
\pard\tx288\tx1584\tx1872\tx2016\tx2448\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	**     ** agic is power.\
\
Section 4				                       THE COMBAT SYSTEM\
The Bard's Tale is a game of fighting. It's the only way to build up experience Fortunately, Mangar and his gruesome creatures are very evil, so don't worry about their feelings. Kill them, if you can.\
Combat with "monsters" (the generic term for all opponents) occurs both randomly and at set locations. You can also initiate intra-party combat at almost any time, in case one of your members  is turned to the dark side. At the outset of combat a list of foes will be given, broken down into the number of foes in each group. The maximum is 99 monsters per group, with up to four groups.\
Combat is divided into a series of "rounds," like a boxing match. At the start of each round, each of your characters must decide what action he will undertake in the upcoming melee, unless, of course, your party decides to run away. A menu of possible selections will appear for each character. These options are as follows.\
\pard\tx288\tx1584\tx1872\tx2016\tx2448\pardeftab720\li1872\fi-1872\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ATTACK FOES: To physically assault foes in the first or second group of monsters.\
PARTY ATTACK: To assault another member of the party, including special members\
DEFEND: Do not interact this round - redues chance of being hit.\
USE AN ITEM: Make use of a magical item held in the character's inventory and currently equipped. This may require specifying a target for the effect.\
\pard\tx288\tx1584\tx1872\tx2016\tx2448\pardeftab720\li1584\fi-1584\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BARD SONG: Bards can paly a short tune to affect the party or the foremost group of monsters in some fashion.\
\pard\tx288\tx1584\tx1872\tx2016\tx2448\pardeftab720\li2016\fi-2016\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 CAST A SPELL: Cast a spell at the party or a group of foes. The spell code must be entered, and a target identified.\
\pard\tx288\tx1584\tx1872\tx2016\tx2448\pardeftab720\li2448\fi-2448\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 HIDE IN SHADOWS: A rogue can try to avoid combat altogether by hiding and, if successful, will be skipped as a target of attack in the upcoming combat round.\
The first three characters in your party can be attacked physically by monsters and can attack back. The last three characters can only be struck by magical attacks, and can only attack back with magic. This simulates your first three characters being up on the front line of attack, with the last three characters acting as backup in case one of the first three is killed. The first two groups of monsters are in a similar position; they are the only monsters who can attack or be attacked physically.\
Once all the choices for your characters have been entered, the round begins. The most dexterous characters or monsters usually make the first strike, but luck, character level and character class also affect this. In evenly matched fights, the outcome often depends on which side gets in the first blow.\
The rate of scrolling of the combat messages can be speeded or slowed. See the Command Summary list of keystrokes for details.\
\pard\tx288\tx1584\tx1872\tx2016\tx2448\pardeftab720\li2448\fi-2448\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 At the end of a combat round, dead monsters will be removed from the ranks of your foes, and dead characters will be shuffled back to the end of your party. A	fresh group of monsters may also advance into the first two ranks to give there fellow monsters a breather.\
\pard\tx288\tx1584\tx1872\tx2016\tx2448\pardeftab720\li2448\fi-2448\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx288\tx1584\tx1872\tx2016\tx2448\pardeftab720\li8\fi-8\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 At the end of combat, treasure and experience points will be split among the battle's survivors.\
\pard\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
SPECIAL MEMBERS\
The special slot (marked "S") is for monsters who canb become part of your party. They can join by:\
\pard\tx432\pardeftab720\li432\fi-432\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1) being summoned or created as an illusion, or some other artiface related to a cast spell, or\
\pard\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2) introducing themselves to the party and offering their services as a comrade\
Specials cannot be controlled in battle; they choose their own attack mode and generally go after the primary group of monsters the party is facing. Specials are cleared out of the S slot when killed. Illusionary specials (created by a sorcerer) are cleared out if any foes disbelieve them.\
If a non-illusionary special is attacked by another member of the party for any reason, it will turn immediately hostile and fight untill defeated!\
\pard\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Tips from the underground:              Combat\
\
1. Usually the highest dexterity character attacks first. For particularly nasty monsters (like blue dragons) attack with your highest dexterity characters first. Your less dexterous characters may not survive long enough to get in a first strike.\
2. Use your spells and Bard songs to lower the armor class of your entire party The lower the better.\
3. If you are attacked by more than two groups of monsters, concentrate on Magic Users first. If you cannot kill off all hte magic-using monsters, you may want to casqt anti-magic spells to protect against illusions, possessions and other spells.\
4. You can minimize damage by killing off all but one monster in either of the first two atttacking groups. As a general rule, attack groups with only one monster last, unless it is a deadly monster.\
5. Many of the undead monsters are capable of draining experience levels, turning characters old and gray or even turning characters to stone. Treat the undead with respect. In other words, kill them quickly.\
6. Be prepared to die a lot with level 1 and 2 characters. Especially at night. especially when you don't have any weapons and are just walking ot Garth's Shoppe. It might even be a good idea to stay close to a Temple at night, so you can quickly heal any wounds.\
7. Fill the special slot quickly. Conjure or sommon a monster or create an illusion, if necessary. The special member will take a lot of heat off your fighters. Monsters tend to attack special members first.\
\pard\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf0 8. Monsters are smart. They usually attack your most vulnerable characters first, unless one of your members represents a significent threat.\
\pard\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Section 5                               THE MAGIC SYSTEM\
\pard\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Magic is power. It can make the difference between success and failure in The Bard's Tale.\
\
\pard\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 It is not always necessary or wise to rely on magic, though, because magic is by no means foolproof. There are some places where magic never functions, and some monsters who are highly resistant to spells. Sometimes you just have to wade in with fists flying and get dirty.\
The best to tell that your party has wondered into an anti-magic zone is that all residual spells except light spells are cancelled.\
Residual spells are magic spells that keep working for more than just an instant. Light spells, trap detection, secret door detection and magical armor are some examples. Most residual spells cause a graphic symob to appear in the central blank strip on the screen, to keep the player aware that the duration hasn't yet expired.\
\pard\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 All spells have a point cost. In other words, all spells cost the mage casting them a bit of his internal energy. This energy is returned automatically in direct sunlight, and may be regenerated at Roscoe's Energy Emporium or in special regenerration zones you have to discover.\
\
\pard\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 There are magical items hidden in the dugeions and carried by the monsters of The Bard's Tale. Magical weapons do extrra damage. Magical armor gives extra protection. Other magical items radiate special energies. There are even magic keys and talismans necessary to get into a certa in important parts of the game. The most powerful magic items are secreted in the most challenging dungeons and are guarded by ferocious monsters. When you win one, you should be very proud and very happy. They can be the key to success against the wickedest opponents.\
To cast a spell, you type in 4-letter codes which are a rough abbreviation of the spell name. The entire list of spells, codes and spell points required begins in section 6.\
All Magic Users, even level 1 novices, start the game with knowledge of all level 1 spells in their magical art. Rather than learning one spell at a time, Magic Users alwasy learn whole groups ("spell levels") of spells at once. It's the closest thing to mass production in Skara Brae. Here is a description of the four magical arts.\
\
CONJURING\
Conjuring deals with the instantaneous creation of objects and effects though the channeling of the mage's power. Conjurer spells are potent, but not unlimited in effect, since the exercise of creation takes a large amount of energy to produce even a moderate effect.\
A conjurer can also produce effects that distort non-solid things to produce new effects, like the distortion of space and time required to teleport human bodies to a new location.\
\
MAGIC\
Magic (meaning the art practiced by a magician) deals with bestowed magical effects on common objects. The items do not become magical, but radiate fields of power for the duration of a spell(which is usually the lenght of combat.)\
The gist of Magic is that it can increase anb item's capability, give it a totally new capability, or change its form to something totaly different.\
Some examples: making a sword do greatere damage, making dungeon walls glow with a magical light, or causing a wall to totally vanish for 1 move.\
\
SORCERY\
The byword of sorcery is, "seeing is believing." Sorcery does not deal with a physical manifestation, but rather a creation of illusion and a tapping into a heightenend sense of awareness.\
An illusion is an image envisioned by the spell caster, which he then lays over the retinas of all who watch, augmenting this with appropriate stimulation of nerve endings to fool the other four senses. The human mind, believing an illusionary creation to be real, can hurt or even killed by it, unless it is somehow disbelieved.\
\pard\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A sorcerer, with the aid of his art, can also perceive certain special things hidden from view.\
\pard\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 WIZARDRY\
Wizardry deals with the summoning and control of supernatural creaturs. The wizard has fewer spells than the other three classes, but his are by far the most potent.\
\pard\tx432\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The creatures he can summon come from another plane of existence, called the\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Negative plane. They join the special slot in the party, and will fight until defeated.\
The wizard has some ability to trap and control normal monsters, as well.\
mages who have learned at least 3 spell leves in an art may elect to change to another mage class at any time. Thus, a level 5 conjurer could choose to become a level 1 magician. His experience points would reset to 0, but he would retain his previous attributes, hit points, spell points, and all knowledge of his conjurer spells. He would be unable to learn any higher conjurer spells, however; once a mage leaves a magic art, he cannot return to it.\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A mage can become a conjurer, magician, or sorcerer as a second class. A mage can become a conjurere, magician, sorcerer, or wizard as a third class. A mage who has knowledge of all 7 levels of spells in all 4 classes is called an Archmage, and is one of the most powerful personages in the world of The Bard's Tale.\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Section 6	Conjurer spells\
Key (see section 11 for glossary)\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ___________________________	CODE\
|SPELL NAME/Description   |	Pt. Cost\
|                         |\
Range\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 |_________________________|	Duration\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
CONGURER SPELLS\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Level 1\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 MAGE FLAME  A small, mobile "touch"	MAFL\
will appear, and float above the	2\
spell caster as he travels	View\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Medium\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ARC FIRE A fan of blue flames will	ARFI\
shoot from the caster's fingers, doing  3 doing 1-4 hits of damage to a select	1 Foe\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 opponent, times caster's level.	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SORCERER SHIELD The mage is protected	SOSH\
protected by an invisible "shield" of	3\
magic, that turns aside many blows	Self\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 that would otherwise hit him	Combat\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 TRAP ZAP This spell will disarm any	TRZP\
trap within 30 feet, in the direction	2\
the party is facing. It will also	30'\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 disarm traps on chests.	---\
\
Level 2\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 FREEZE FOES This spell binds your	FRFO\
enemies with a magical force, slowing	3\
their movements and making them	Group\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 easier to hit.	Combat\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 KIEL'S MAGIC COMPASS A compass of	MACO\
shimmering magelight appearns above	3\
the party, telling them the direction	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 they face.	Medium\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BATTLESKILL This spell increases one	BASK\
of your party member's skill with	4\
weapons, increasing the accuracy and	Char\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ferocity of his attacks.	Combat\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 WORD OF HEALING With the utterance of	WOHL\
a single word the spell caster can	4\
cure a party member of minor wounds,	Char\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 healing 2-8 points of damage.	---\
\
Level 3\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ARCYNE'S MAGESTAR A bright flare will	MAST\
ignite in front of a group of your	5\
enemies, temporarily blinding them	Group\
and causing them to miss the next	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 combat round.\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 LESSER REVELATION This is an extened	LERE\
"Mage Flame" spell which also reveals	5\
secret doors.	View\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Long\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 LEVITATION Partially negates the	LEVI\
effect of gravity on the party,	4\
causing them to float over traps or	Party\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 up through portals.	Short\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 WARSTRIKE Causes a spray of energy to	WAST\
spring from the caster's extended	5\
finger, sizzling a group of opponents	Group\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 for 4-16 hits damage.	---\
\
Level 4\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ELIK'S INSTANT WOLF With this spell	INWO\
the caster can make a real wolf appear  6 \
and join the party, fighting in its	Special\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 defence.	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 FLESH RESTORE This powerful healing	FLRE\
spell will restor 6-24 hit points to a  6 party member and cure poisoning and	Char\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 insanity.	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 POISON STRIKE This spell hurls	POST\
porcupine-sharp needles from the mages  6 finger into a selected monster,	Foe\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 poisoning it.	---\
\
Level 5\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 GREATER REVELATION This spell	GRRE\
functions like a "Lesser Revelation"	7\
spell, only it illuminates a wider	View\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 area.	Long\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 WRATH OF VALHALLA Makes a member of	WROV\
party fight with the strenght and	7\
accuracy of ancient Norse heroes for	CHAR\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 the entire combat.	Combat\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SHOCK-SPHERE A large glove of intense	SHSP\
electrical energy envelops a group of	7\
ememies, doing 8-32 hits of damage.	Group\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Level 6\
\
ELIK'S INSTANT ORGE This incantation	INOG\
will cause a real ogre to appear and	9\
join the party.	Special\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 MAJOR LEVITATION This will make the	MALE\
party levitate as does the level 3	8\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 spell, but its effects will last until  Party dispelled	Indef.\
\
Level 7\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 FLESH ANEW This spell behaves like the  FLAN "Flesh Restore" spell, exept that it	12\
will affect every member of the party	Party\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 APPORT ARCANE Allows the party to	APAR\
teleport anwhere within a dungeon,	15\
execpt for places protected by	Party\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf0 teleportion shields.	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Section 7	MAGICIAN SPELLS\
Level 1\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 VORPAL PLATING This spell causes the	VOPL\
weapon (or hands) of a party member to  3\
be covered with a magical field, which  Char causes him to do an additional 2-8	Combat\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 points of damage.\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 AIR ARMOR This spell will make the air  AIAR around the spell caster bind itself	3\
into a weightless suit of "armor"	Self\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Combat\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SABHAR'S STEELLIGHT SPELL Causes all	STLI\
metal near the party to glow with a	2\
magical light, illuminating the	View\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 surrounding area.	Short\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SCRY SITE The walls themselves will	SCSI\
speak, under direction of this spell,	2\
revealing to the spell caster his	Party\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 location in the labyrinth.	---\
\
Level 2\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 HOLY WATER A spray of water will	HOWA\
emanate from the mage's fingers,doing	4\
6-24 points of damage to any undead	1 Foe\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 foe(e.g. skeleton,zombie,vampire)	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 WITHER STRIKE Any foe at whom this	WIST\
spell is castq is likely to be turned	5\
old, thus reducing his ability to	1 Foe\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 attack and defend in combat.	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 MAGE GAUNTLETS Makes a party member's	MAGA\
hands(or weapon) more deadly, adding	5\
4-16 points of damage to every wound	Char\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 he inflicts.	Combat\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 AREA ENCHANT This spell will cause the  AREN dungeon walls within 30 feed of a	5\
stairway to call out, if the party is	30'\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 traveling toward it.	Short\
\
Level 3\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 YBARRA'S MYSTIC SHIELD The air in	MYSH\
front of the party will bind itself	6\
into metallic hardness, and will	Party\
accompany the party when it moves, as	Medium\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 a sort of invisible "shield."\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 OSCON'S OGRESTRENGTH Allows a member	OGST\
of your party to damgage monsters as	6\
if he were an incredible strong as an	Char\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ogre.	Combat\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 MITHRIL MIGHT Increases the armor	MIMI\
protection of each party member by	7\
enhancing their armor's natural	Party\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 strenght by magic	Combat\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 STARFLARE The air surrounding a group	STFL\
of your enimies will instantly ignite	6\
causing them to be burnt for 6 to 24	Group\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 damage points.	---\
\
Level 4\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SPECTRE TOUCH This spell will drain a	SPTO\
single enemy of 12 to 48 points of	8\
damage, as if touched by a spectre	1 Foe\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DRAGON BREATH Allows the mage to	DRBR\
breathe fire at a group of foes, doing  7\
8 to 32 points of damage to each.	Group\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SABHAR'S STONELIGHT SPELL Makes all	STSI\
stone and earth within range of the	7\
party glow with magical light,	View\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 revieling even secret doors	Medium\
\
Level 5\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ANTI-MAGIC Causes the ground to absorb  ANMA a protion of the magical energies cast  8\
at the party, frequently allowing the	Party\
members to escape all damage. Also	Combat\
aids in disbelieving illusions and\
turning back magical fire, like a\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 dragons breath.\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 AKER'S ANIMATED SWORD A magical sword	ANSW\
will appear and fight like a summoned	8\
monster in defense of the party.	Spec\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Combat\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 STONE TOUCH This spell will often turn  STTO an enemy to stone, or a stone monster	8\
from living stone to dead stone. But	1 Foe\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 it doesn't always work.	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Level 6\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
PHASE DOOR This incantation will alter  PHDO the structure of almost any wall	9\
in from of the party, turning it to	1 Wall\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 air for exactly 1 move.	1 Move\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 YBARRA'S MYSTICAL COAT OF ARMOR Causes  YMCA an effect like "air armore" to cover	10\
every member of the party, lasting	Party\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 indefinitely.	Indef.\
\
Level 7\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 RESTORATION Makes all wounds disappear  REST as your entire party is reforged into	12\
unflawed bodies. Also cures poisoning	Party\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 and insanity.	---\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DEATHSTRIKE This incantation is very	DEST\
likely to instantly kill one selected	14\
enemy, big or small.	1 Foe\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
---\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 **   **   **\
 ** *  * **\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	*    *   hen in doubt,  blast'em with magic\
\
Section 8	SORCEROR SPELLS\
Level 1\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 MANGAR'S MIND JAB The Mage casts a	MIJA\
concentrated blast of psychic energy	3\
at one opponent doing 2-8 hits of	1 Foe\
damage for each experience level of	---\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 the mage.\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PHASE BLUR The entire party will seem	PHBL\
to waver and blur in the sight of the	2\
monsters, making the party very	Party\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 difficult to strike.	Combat\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 LOCATE TRAPS In a stae of magically-	LOTR\
heightened arwareness, the spell	2\
caster will be able to sense a trap	30'\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 within 30 feet, if he faces it.	Short\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 HYPNOTIC IMAGE If successfully cast,	HYIM\
this spell will make a group of your	3\
enemies miss the following attack	Group\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 round.	---\
\
Level 2\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DISBELIEVE This spell will reveal the	DISB\
true nature of any illusion attacking	4\
the party, causing it to instantly	Party\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 vanish.	---\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 TARGET-DUMMY A magical illusion	TADU\
appears in the party's special slot.	4\
Unable to attack, it will serve to	Spec\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 draw enemy attacks to himself.	Combat\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 MANGAR'S MIND FIST A higher power	MIFI\
"Mind Jab," does 3-12 hits damage to	4\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 one foe, times the experience level of  1 Foe of the mage.	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 WORD OF FEAR This incantation will	FEAR\
make a group of you enemies shake in	4\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 fear, reducing their ability to attack  Group and do damage.	Combat\
\
Level 3\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 WIND WOLF This spell creates an	WIWO\
willusionary wolf to join the party.	5\
This and other illusions are only	Spec\
effective as long as an enemy "belives" --them. Depending on power and location\
the monster may see through the\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 illusion, and cause it to vanish.\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 KYLEARAN'S VANISHING SPELL The mage	VANI\
casting this spell will turn nearly	6\
invisible in the eyes of his enemies,	Self\
who will have great defficulty in	Combat\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 striking him.\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SECOND SIGHT  The mage will experience  SESI heightened awareness and be able to	6\
sense stairways, special encounters,	30'\
spell negation zones, and other	Medium\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 unusual occurrences.\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 CURSE Causes a group of your enemies	CURS\
to fear you greatly, lessening their	5\
morale and their ability to hit and	Group\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 damage you.	Combat\
\
Level 4\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 CAT EYES The member of the mage's	CAEY\
party will all receive perfect night-	7\
vision, which will last indefinitely.	View\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Indef.\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 WIND WARRIOR This spell will create	WIWA\
the illusion of a battle-ready warrior  6 that joins your party.	Spec\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 KYLEARAN'S INVISIBLITY SPELL This	INVI\
invocation will perform a Vanishing	7\
Spell on the entire party.	Party\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Combat\
Level 5\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 WIND OGRE  This spell will create the	WIOG\
illusion of an ogre, which will	7\
accompany and fight with your party.	Party\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DISRUPT ILLUSION This spell will	DIIL\
destroy any illusion fighting the	8\
party, and any new illusions created	Party\
later in combbat. it will also point	Combat\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 out anby dopplegangers in the party.\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 MANGAR'S MIND BLADE A sharp explosion	MIBL\
of psychic evergy that inflicts 10-40	8\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\li5760\fi-5760\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 hits to each and every enemy you face.  All Foes ---\
\
Level 6\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\li5760\fi-5760\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 WIND DRAGON This incantation will	WIDR\
create an illusionary red dragon to	10\
fight with your party.	Spec\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\li5760\fi-5760\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\li5760\fi-5760\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 MIND WARP  This spell will make a	MIWP\
member of your party go totally	9\
insane. Useful for possessions.	Char.\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\li5760\fi-5760\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	---\
Level 7\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\li5760\fi-5760\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 WIND GIANT This spell will create an	WIGI\
illusionary storm gieant, to join with  12\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 and fight for, your party.	Spec\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Sorcerer Sight  This spell functions	SOSI\
the same as the Second Sight spell,	11\
but it will last indefinitely.	30 '\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Indef.\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Section 9	WIZARD SPELLS\
Level 1\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SUMMON DEAD This spell will gate into	SUDE\
our universe a zombie or skeleton to	6\
fight for the party.	Spec\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 REPEL DEAD This spell will do 16 to 80  REDE points of damage to a group of undead	4\
creatures.	Group\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	---\
Level 2\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 LESSER SUMMONING This spell will gate	LESU\
into our universe a lower power	8\
elemental or demon, who will (under	Spec\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 protest) join the party.	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DEMON BANE This spell will do 32 to	DEBA\
128 points of damage to a single demon. 8 The power to summon is the power to	1 Foe\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 destroy.	---\
\
Level 3\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SUMMON PHANTOM This spell will bring	SUPH\
a medium level undead creature into	10\
party.	Spec\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	---\
\pard\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DISPOSSESS This spell will make any	DISP\
party member return to his normal	10\
state.	Char\
	---\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Level 4\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PRIME SUMMONING This spell gates in a	PRSU\
meadium level elemental or demon, to	12\
fight with the party.	Spec\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 		---\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ANIMATE DEAD Gives a dead character	ANDE\
undead strength, making him attack	11\
your enemies as though he were truly	Char\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 alive.	---\
\
Level 5\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BAYLOR'S SPELL BIND This spell if	SPBI\
successful possesses the mind of any	14\
enemy, forcing him to join your party	1 Foe\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 and fight in its defence.	---\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DEMON STRIKE This spell works like	DMST\
Demon Bane, but it will affect an	14\
entire group of demons.	Group\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 		---\
Level 6\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SPELL SPIRIT This spell will gate in a  SPSP higher-level undead creature to fight	15\
for the party.	Spec\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 		---\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BEYOND DEATH This spell will restore	BEDE\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\li5760\fi-5760\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 life and one hit point to a character.  18 Char ---\
\
Level 7\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\li5760\fi-5760\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 GREATER SUMMONING This spell will gate  GRSU a greater demon into our universe and	22\
gind him to the party.	Spec\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\li5760\fi-5760\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 		---\
\pard\tx432\tx5760\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Section 10	BARD SONGS\
\pard\tx12\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. FALKENTYNE'S FURY\
\pard\tx12\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 This tune increases the damage your party will do in combat, by driving them inot a berserker rage.\
\pard\tx12\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2. THE SEEKER'S BALLAD\
This song will produce light when exploring, and during combat it will increase the party's change of hitting a foe with a weapon.\
\
3. WAYLAND'S WATCH\
\pard\tx12\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	This song will sooth your savage foes, making them do less damage in combat.\
\pard\tx12\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 4. BADH'R KILNFEST\
This is an ancient Elven melody, which will heal the Bard's wounds during traveling, and heal the party's wounds during combat.\
\
5. THE TRAVELLER'S TUNE\
This melody makes the members of your party more dexterous and agile, and thus more difficult to hit.\
\
6. LUCKLARAN\
This song sets up a partial "anti-magic" field, which gives party memebers some increased protection against spell casting.\
\pard\tx432\tx1728\tx2016\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
Section 11		                          SPELL KEY GLOSSARY\
Range Terms\
\pard\tx432\tx1728\tx2016\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 View	--spell affects line of sight\
1 Foe	--spell affects a single mosnter, regardless of how many you face.\
All Foes	--spell affects all monsters you face.\
Group	--spell affects  1 of 4 monster groups\
Self	--spell affects spellcaster only\
30'	--3 squares in the direction you face\
Char	-- one of 6 party members or special\
Party	--spell affects all 6 party members and special\
Special	--spell affects "S" slot only; summoned creature enters combat next round\
\pard\tx432\tx1728\tx2016\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Duration Terms\
\pard\tx432\tx1728\tx2016\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Combat	--spell lasts until all monsters or all party members are killed, or until party runs away\
Short	--spell lasts only a few minutes\
Medium	--spell lasts a little longer\
Long	--spell lasts twice as long as "Short"\
Indef.	--spell lasts until party enters the Adventurer's Guild or an anti-magic zone\
\pard\tx432\tx1728\tx2016\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
Section 12		                          TIPS FROM THE UNDERGROUD\
\pard\tx432\tx1728\tx2016\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Characters\
\
\pard\tx432\tx1728\tx2016\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Don't be concerened about losing a Level 1 character. Just make another one. But when your characters reach the 3rd level, back them up regularly using your favorate disk copy program.\
2. If your favorate character gets killed, there are several things you can do. You can resurrect him by magic or in a temple by spending spell points or gold. You can turn off the computer and reboot, and your entire party will be restored, but without experience, gold and magic items they have won since the last tiem you saved the game. Or you can load the character from your back-up disk onto the main disk, after first deleting the dead character from your main disk. NOTE: you canb only restore a character by rebooting if you have previously saved your party by exiting the game when in the Adventurer's Guild.\
3. In "rolling" a character's attribute numbers, 17s and 18s canb often make a big difference, as followes: Intelligence gives Magic Users bonus spell points; Dexterity gives fighters (but not Bards) bonus armor protection and first strike capability; Strength allows fighters to do extra damage in combat; Luck allows Rogues to survieve even if they accidentally set off a trap; and Constitution gives all characters bonus hit points.\
4. Most character races have at least one attribute they are particularly high in. Pay close attention to starting attributes when designing your party.\
5. Develop a Sorcerorh fast. They are very useful in dungeons. Wizards are extremely important in advanced levels; they can summon demons, extremely powerful specials. Develop an Archmage, too. You'll need one; you'll want one.\
6. Your pre-built party, excellent for beginning levels, may not be the best group for advanced levels. You may want to experiment with a hunter, because his "critical hit" capability can vanquish superior monsters, and the monk, who is perhaps the best fighter of all after he reaches the 6th level.\
\pard\tx432\tx1728\tx2016\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 7. Warriors and other fighters often play less of a role against higher level, magic-using monsters. But without protection of their armor and strong arms, your Magic Users would not survive long enough to learn the higher level magic\
\pard\tx5616\tx5904\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 spells.\
8. Beware the Doppelganger monster. It enters your party and looks just like one of your members.\
\
TIPS FROM THE UNDERGROUND: Magic\
1. Don't venture too far into any dungeon without your maximum spell points. A good rule is to leave a dungeon when you are down to one quarter of your maximum spell points.\
2. Manage your spell points carefully. Don't waste a spell if you can acomplish the same thing without magic. Torches, for example, often work as well as magic light spells. On the other hand, don't be shy about using magic in combat. When in doubt, blast'em with magic.\
3. Locate traps, second sight and sorcerors sight spells all identify traps within 30 feet. Trapzap spell will disarm all traps within 30 feet.\
\pard\tx5616\tx5904\pardeftab720\ri0\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf0 4. Cast a long-lasting Bard spell right before entering a tavern. It's light getting a free spell.\
\pard\tx5616\tx5904\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Section 13	 ITEMS\
\pard\tx5616\tx5904\pardeftab720\ri0\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf0 These are the basic items found in Garth's Equipment Shoppe in unlimited quantity:\
\pard\tx5616\tx5904\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Torch	--for light in dungeons\
Lamp	--longer duration than a torch\
Broadsword	--most damaging non-magic sword, only\
		usable by fighters\
Short Sword	--a lighter sword, usable by all but\
		mages\
Dagger	--usable by all, not too effective\
War Axe	--a heavy, damaging weapon, not usable\
		by bards,rogues,or magic users Halbard	--a combination battle axe and pike,\
		the most damaging non-magical weapon Mace	--the most powerful weapon a rogue can\
		use; an armor crusher\
Staff	--a simple,non-magical cudgel\
Buckler	--a small round shield\
Tower Shield	--a larger shield\
Leather Armor	--the lightest armor, wearable by all\
		but magicians and conjurers\
Chain Mail	--light metal mesh armor,best against\
		light weapons\
Scale Armor	--better still, difficult to pierce\
Plate Armor	--strongest non-magical armor\
Robes	--will dull old knives,but that's it\
Helm	--covers the head adn saves the\
		adventurer's good looks\
Leather Gloves	--some protection for the hands\
Gauntlets	--metal gloves\
\pard\tx5616\tx5904\pardeftab720\ri0\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Mandolin, Harp, Flute	--musical instruments for use by Bards\
\pard\tx5616\tx5904\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Item Abbreviations\
\pard\tx5616\tx5904\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 FGN is an abbreviation for Figurine, a magical statuette which canb come to life.\
\
MTHR is an abbreviation for Mithril, an elven metal with magical qualities. ADMT is an abbreviation for Adamant, another magical metal.\
\
DMND is an abbreviation for Diamond, one of the hardest substances known to man or monster.\
\pard\tx432\tx576\tx1440\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
TIPS FROM THE UNDERGROUND: Items\
1. Generally, the more expensive the items is, the better it works. Almost like real life.\
2. There are no cursed or bad items, unlike real life.\
3. Don't be stingy. Equip your fighters with the best armor, weapon, shield, helmet and gauntlets money can buy. After all, he can't take it with him.\
4. Experiment with all items you find to determine their capabilities. Magical items are key to success. Remember that an item may only be magical for certain characters and classes, so trade items around if you have to.\
5. Make sure some of your characters carry less then 8 items, or else the party will never be able to pick up new magical items in the dungeons.\
6. Whenever your party captures an especially interesting or powerful magic item, save the party as soon as possible. That way, even if disaster strikes, you will never lose that powerful armor, weapon, talisman or whatever.\
\pard\tx432\tx576\tx1440\pardeftab720\ri0\sa1440\partightenfactor0
\cf0 7. This manual is not protected by magic shields or air armor. Don't let your dog eat it\page }